# CS-340-Client-Server-Development

How do you write programs that are maintainable, readable, and adaptable? Especially consider your work on the CRUD Python module from Project One, which you used to connect the dashboard widgets to the database in Project Two. What were the advantages of working in this way? How else could you use this CRUD Python module in the future?

-We write programs that are maintainable, readable, and adaptable by following a few different guidelines. The first is we follow proper nameing conventions and we stay consistent with them, this way our code is easy to read across the entire project. We make sure we add many comments on what is actually going on and this helps with maintainability and adaptability. That is because when anyone can pick up your code and understand what is going on it makes it so that changes can be done quickly by others who didnt build the code in the first place. The great thing about the CRUD python module was that it was modular and simple. It was a basic python program consisting of four different methods which performed simple actions on a database and that was it. It could create, update, read, and delete items which make up the most fundamental actions to be performed on a database. Now anyone can take this python module and just insert it, change a few names to match their data and they will have a working CRUD module. I could use this module anywhere I have a database in mondoDB.

How do you approach a problem as a computer scientist? Consider how you approached the database or dashboard requirements that Grazioso Salvare requested. How did your approach to this project differ from previous assignments in other courses? What techniques or strategies would you use in the future to create databases to meet other client requests?

-As a computer scientist I approach a problem by first understanding the requirements involved in the project itself. The database requirements were very straight forward and breaking it down into manageable sections helps make a more modular project. For example, when working with the database it was first understood that we would need to be able to implement a create and read function to a python module and then run some scripts to test that it worked. Since we were only focusing on two different functions it allowed us to focus on the design of the module to make sure that it was modular and optimized. Then later on, we added the update and delete functions into the module and since we already had the base for it created, it was very simple to add this functionality. We essentially made our code readable, maintainable, and adaptable. My approach in this course differed from previous assignments in that I havnt had to connect modules of code to a database before and this made me take extra caution and care in to what I was doing that I wouldnt have normally taken.

What do computer scientists do, and why does it matter? How would your work on this type of project help a company, like Grazioso Salvare, to do their work better?

-Essentially, computer scientists solve problems using technology. It matters because sometimes we need to connect the world of technology with the world of human understanding and take information that would otherwise be useless and give it meaning. My work on a project like this in helping Grazioso Salvare would help them do their work better by taking the mass amounts of data and information that they have and give it meaning that can be used to better the business. Sometimes there are trends that cannot be seen and there is essential information that can be missed. Through analyzing the data and making something understandable from it, we can not only give them ways to improve their business but help them better understand their business and the information they have. 
